Welcome to the section of the course on utilizing databases with Python and flask we now understand
how to grab user information through forms with flask.
Well we're going to do now is Bill on top of this understanding by linking our flask applications to
a database so we can actually save user information.
So let's talk about databases just in general.
We're going to be using Escudo or sequel databases and they allow us to store data in a tabular format
essentially a really large Excel spreadsheet where there's an index columns 0 0 0 1 2 and that's a numeric
column for every row.
And then we have values for each column.
So for example we can have a name column for name of a puppy the breed of the puppy and then the eye
color of the puppy and each individual row represents a user or a single data point that typically when
you're working with any Escudo or sequel database you're actually going to need to learn sequence statements.
So sequel stands for structured query language.
And that's actually it's own syntax in order to query essentially ask the database for information back
and that sort of syntax looks something like this.
Select Asterix from puppies maybe puppies is the name of the table and so on.
Now luckily with the aid of some useful libraries we're going to be able to use pure python.
So you don't actually need to learn the structure to create language in order to have a database working
if your flask application instead will be able to do very similar commands through python.
So even though we're using as well with our database and our flask application we don't actually need
to learn the structure language syntax that goes along for typical Escuela database.
Instead we'll be doing that all through python making our lives a lot easier.
Now Python and Flast can connect to a variety of sequel database engines.
So sequel comes in many flavors so to speak including post sequel My sequel sequel light Microsoft sequel
server and a lot more we're going to be using sequel lite.
It's a really simple as cool database engine that comes a flask and can handle all our needs and as
quick point you've probably heard me say both sequel and Eskew all it's really up to you how you prefer
to say it.
I sometimes switch back and forth.
So just keep that in mind.
So sequel lite despite its name it can actually scale quite well for basic applications.
If you're running a web application that gets around 100000 hits per day sequela I can handle any issues
and don't think of a hundred thousand as some sort of hard cap limit.
It's just a kind of upper limit as far as what you should expect sequel like to be able to handle.
It's not a hard cap at hundred thousand hits and over it's going to stop working.
It's just a general range of what it can do.
So that's pretty good scale.
Now to get a python flask and a skill together we're going to need what's known as an o r.m and that's
an object relational mapper.
Essentially something that allows us to convert Python code to those sequel commands that we talked
about earlier.
So as I just mention mentioned or M is going to allow us to directly as Python instead of a sequel syntax
to create edit update and delete from our database.
And the most common or M for Python is called sequel alchemy flask sequel.
Alchemy is an extension off of that that actually allows for an easy connection of flask with sequel
alchemy.
So at the end of the day you can see that we simply have layers of abstraction.
We have the CULE database and then on top of that we're going to abstract further with Python's sequel
alchemy and then on top of that we have a higher level abstraction called flask sequel alchemy.
So we're really going to be working on a flat sequel alchemy which is going to allow us to very easily
connect Python code inside of a flask application to create a sequel database and then we can create
new rows in that database update the zeros delete those rows and so on.
So in order to do that you need to actually install flask sequel alchemy.
It's already in the requirements of text files if you using that you're good to go.
But in case you haven't used that you can just say Pipp install flask sequel alchemy.
And you can just do a google search for a flask of alchemy to check out their documentation.
All right so that's a very brief introduction to just databases and Python in general.
Coming up next we're going to have a further discussion on how we actually work with flask in particular
with sequel alchemy.
We'll see at the next lecture.